Now let's take a look at.
Many to Many relationships.
Now many to many relationships are the most complicated type of relationships in a database and they're
also one of the most common almost as common as one to many relationships.
So let's take a look now.
So what is a many to many relationship with a many to many relationship is where two tables can have
many instances of each other.
So if we take a look at our example here between products and orders table these two tables actually
share many to many relationship so products can appear in more than one order.
So two separate customers can pay for the same product.
So let's say for coffee it can show up multiple times in the Orders table because many people are ordering
filled coffees.
But at the same time one order can contain multiple products.
So if a customer came into a coffee store they could order food to coffee and a cappuccino.
Or as many products as they wanted.
So these two tables share many to many relationship.
Now how do we represent this relationship between these two tables.
Actually it's a little bit more complicated than one to many relationships.
So obviously we don't want to contain any order information in our products table.
We just want product information.
But at the same time if one order book contain multiple products we can store this in the Orders table
either because we don't know how many rows.
Each order is going to take up.
So what we actually have to do is we have to introduce a third table and this third table is known as
a junction table.
And here we've called it all the details and it contains a foreign key to the two other tables.
So it contains the product ID as a foreign key and it contains an order ID as a foreign key and each
row in the Order Details table represents an item of a particular order.
So every time a customer comes into the store and places an order that will be represented in one row
in the Orders table.
But if they were to order multiple items they should be represented as multiple rows in the Order Details
table.
So if a customer came in and ordered a filter coffee and a cappuccino we would need to insert one row
in the Orders table with an order ID but we would need to insert two rows into the Order Details table
for each item ordered.
So for the coffee and for the cappuccino and each of these rows for the coffee and the cappuccino would
contain the same order ID in the Order Details table and we can see here that we have a one to many
relationship between the products table and the Order Details table.
So each row in the Order Details table can only be associated with one product but obviously one product
can turn up in multiple rows in the Order Details table.
And we also have a one to many relationship between the orders table and the Order Details table.
So each row in the Order Details table only represents one order but obviously if a customer comes in
and orders multiple products then there be multiple rows in the Order Details table for that order.
So this is how we represent many to many relationships in a database.
We create a third table called a junction table and the junction table has a one to many relationship
between the other two tables.
So this is a little bit more complicated than the one so many are the one to one relationships but it's
important to know because many to many relationships are fairly common in databases.